Title: Singer Thuy to debut as first Vietnamese-born performer at ...
Source: VnExpress International
Link: https://e.vnexpress.net/news/arts/singer-thuy-to-debut-as-first-vietnamese-born-performer-at-coachella-4702824.html
Published Date: N/A
Author: 
Tags: Thuy
Summary: Thuy, a Vietnamese-American pop/R&B artist, is set to perform at Coachella on April 13 and 20, marking her as the first Vietnamese-born ...
Content: Vietnamese-American pop/R&B singer Thuy. Photo from Thuy's Facebook Coachella’s organizers, who unveiled this year’s line-up on Wednesday, included Thuy among the selected artists. Embracing this milestone, Thuy shared her excitement on social media: "This girl is playing Coachella!!! We did this guys!" "This is because of all your support and this is as much a win for me as it is for the Viet community!" Born Tran Thi Thu Thuy, the 33-year-old artist initially faced challenges in pursuing her music career, primarily due to her parents’ expectations of her becoming a doctor. In a 2022 Billboard interview, she recounted the difficulty in departing from a medical career path to pursue music. She switched jobs multiple times post-graduation before finally dedicating herself to music. Her music career gained significant traction in 2021 with the release of her EP "i hope u see this" and its popular single "universe." Her second EP "girls like me don’t cry," released the following year, earned her international acclaim. People Magazine listed Thuy as the #1 Emerging Artist to Watch in 2022, while music video network Vevo included her in their 2023 DSCVR Artist to Watch list. Coachella, an annual music and arts festival in the Coachella Valley of the Colorado Desert, California, is known for showcasing a mix of popular, established, and emerging artists, as well as reunited groups. It stands as one of the largest, most renowned, and most profitable music festivals in the U.S. and globally. Subscribe the VnExpress International Subsidiary of VnExpress License number: 71/GP-CBC, Ministry of Information and Communications, September 22, 2021 © Copyright 1997 VnExpress.net. All rights reserved. 

